Alright, here's what you just learned.
Explain the role of brokers, topics, partitions, and offsets in a Kafka cluster.
Describe how replication and ISR provide fault tolerance.
Contrast ZooKeeper-based coordination with KRaft mode.
Stick with me here.
This is the part where real understanding happens.
Don't just watch and forget.
Go practice.
Build it in code.
Explain it to someone.
That's how it sticks.
The complete Apache Kafka course with cheatsheets and mock interviews is at guru-sishya.in slash apache-kafka.
Drop a like if this helped.
You now know how to explain the role of brokers, topics, partitions, and offsets in a kafka cluster, describe how replication and isr provide fault tolerance, and explain the trade-offs in an interview.
Ab interview mein dhoom machao!